MON-15626-add-azure-management-policies-pack (#2149)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-azure-policyinsights-policystates.md

When this feature is enabled, you can skip the installation part below.

You still have to manually install the plugin on the poller(s) when:
- Automatic plugin installation is turned off
- You want to run a discovery job from a poller that doesn't monitor any resource of this kind yet

> More information in the [Installing the plugin](/docs/monitoring/pluginpacks/#installing-the-plugin) section.

Use the commands below according to your operating system's package manager:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```bash
dnf install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-Api
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="CentOS 7" label="CentOS 7">

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-Api
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

```bash
apt install centreon-plugin-cloud-azure-policyinsights-policystates-api
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuration

### Host

1. Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.
2. In the **IP Address/DNS** field, set the following IP address: **127.0.0.1**.

> 3. Apply the **Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates** template to the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Apply the **Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-custom** template to the host.
```

---
id: cloud-azure-policyinsights-policystates
title: Azure Policy States
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack Assets

### Templates

The Centreon Plugin Pack **Azure Policies States** brings a host template:

* Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-custom

It brings the following service template:

| Service Alias | Service Template                                       | Service Description             | Default |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:--------|
| Compliance    | Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-Compliance-Api | Check Azure policies compliance | X       |

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> > *Default* services templates are automatically linked to the host template(s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Default** services are automatically created when the host template is applied.
```

the **Configuration > Plugin Packs > Manager** menu.

### Plugin

Since Centreon 22.04, you can benefit from the 'Automatic plugin installation' feature.
When this feature is enabled, you can skip the installation part below.

You still have to manually install the plugin on the poller(s) when:
- Automatic plugin installation is turned off
- You want to run a discovery job from a poller that doesn't monitor any resource of this kind yet

> More information in the [Installing the plugin](/docs/monitoring/pluginpacks/#installing-the-plugin) section.

Use the commands below according to your operating system's package manager:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```bash
dnf install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-Api
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="CentOS 7" label="CentOS 7">

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates-Api
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

```bash
apt install centreon-plugin-cloud-azure-policyinsights-policystates-api
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configuration

### Host

> * Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into Centreon and add a new host through **Configuration > Hosts**.
```

> * In the **IP Address/DNS** field, set the following IP address: **127.0.0.1**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the **IP Address/DNS** field, set the following IP address: **127.0.0.1**.
```

> * Apply the **Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates** template to the host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Apply the **Cloud-Azure-PolicyInsights-PolicyStates** template to the host.
```

> * Once the template is applied, fill in the corresponding macros. Some macros are mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Once the template is applied, fill in the corresponding macros. Some macros are mandatory.
```

**centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`) and test the plugin by
running the following command:

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_azure_policyinsights_policystates.pl \
    --plugin=cloud::azure::policyinsights::policystates::plugin \
    --mode=compliance \
    --resource-group='' \
    --subscription='' \
    --tenant='' \
    --client-id='' \
    --client-secret='' \
    --proxyurl='' \
    --policy-states='default' \
    --resource-location='' \
    --resource-type='' \
    --warning-non-compliant-policies='' \
    --critical-non-compliant-policies='' \
    --warning-compliance-state='' \
    --critical-compliance-state='%{compliance_state} eq "NonCompliant"' \
    
```

The expected command output is shown below:

```bash
OK:   | 'policies.non_compliant.count'=76;;;0 ;  
```

### Available modes

All available modes can be displayed by adding the `--list-mode` parameter to
the command:

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_azure_policyinsights_policystates.pl \
    --plugin=cloud::azure::policyinsights::policystates::plugin \
    --list-mode
```

The plugin brings the following modes:

* compliance

### Available options

#### Modes options

> All  modes specific options are listed here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All modes-specific options are listed here:
```

| --filter-perfdata-adv                      |     Advanced perfdata filter.  Eg: --filter-perfdata-adv='not (%(value) == 0 and %(max) eq "")'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Output       |

> | --explode-perfdata-max                     |     Put max perfdata (if it exist) in a specific perfdata (without values: same with '\_max' suffix) (Multiple options)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Output       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --explode-perfdata-max                     |     Put max perfdata (if it exists) in a specific perfdata (without values: same with '\_max' suffix) (Multiple options)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Output       |
```

| --change-exit                              |     Change exit code: --change-exit=unknown=critical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Output       |

> | --range-perfdata                           |     Change perfdata range thresholds display: 1 = start value equals to '0' is removed, 2 = threshold range is not display.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Output       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --range-perfdata                           |     Change perfdata range thresholds display: 1 = start value equals to '0' is removed, 2 = threshold range is not displayed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Output       |
```

| --float-precision                          | Set the float precision for thresholds (Default: 8).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Output       |

> | --source-encoding                          | Set encoding of monitoring sources (In some case. Default: 'UTF-8').      Microsoft Azure Rest API      To connect to the Azure Rest API, you must register an application.      Follow the 'How-to guide' in     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal. The application needs the 'Monitoring Reader' role (see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/roles-permissions-security#monitoring-reader). This custom mode is using the 'OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant Flow'. For futher informations, visit     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow | Output       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --source-encoding                          | Set encoding of monitoring sources (In some cases. Default: 'UTF-8').      Microsoft Azure Rest API.     To connect to the Azure Rest API, you must register an application.      Follow the 'How-to guide' at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal. The application needs the 'Monitoring Reader' role (see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/roles-permissions-security#monitoring-reader). This custom mode is using the 'OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant Flow'. For further information, visit  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow | Output       |
```

> | --source-encoding                          |     Set encoding of monitoring sources (In some case. Default: 'UTF-8').      Microsoft Azure Rest API      To connect to the Azure Rest API, you must register an application.      Follow the 'How-to guide' in     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-cr     eate-service-principal-portal      The application needs the 'Monitoring Reader' role (See     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/roles-perm     issions-security#monitoring-reader).      This custom mode is using the 'OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant Flow'      For futher informations, visit     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-oauth     2-client-creds-grant-flow   | Output       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --source-encoding                          |     Set encoding of monitoring sources (In some cases. Default: 'UTF-8').      Microsoft Azure Rest API      To connect to the Azure Rest API, you must register an application.      Follow the 'How-to guide' in     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal. The application needs the 'Monitoring Reader' role (see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/roles-permissions-security#monitoring-reader). This custom mode is using the 'OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant Flow'. For futher informations, visit     https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow   | Output       |
```

| --interval                                 |     Set interval of the metric query (Can be : PT1M, PT5M, PT15M, PT30M, PT1H, PT6H, PT12H, PT24H).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Api          |

> | --aggregation                              |     Set monitor aggregation (Can be multiple, Can be: 'minimum', 'maximum', 'average', 'total', 'count').                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Api          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --aggregation                              |     Set monitor aggregation (can be multiple, can be: 'minimum', 'maximum', 'average', 'total', 'count').                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Api          |
```

> | --zeroed                                   |     Set metrics value to 0 if none. Usefull when Monitor does not return value when not defined.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Api          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --zeroed                                   |     Set metrics value to 0 if none. Useful when Monitor does not return value when not defined.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Api          |
```

| --timeout                                  | Set timeout in seconds (Default: 10).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Api          |

> | --http-peer-addr                           | Set the address you want to connect (Useful if hostname is only a vhost. no IP resolve)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Http global  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --http-peer-addr                           | Set the address you want to connect (useful if hostname is only a vhost. No IP resolve)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Http global  |
```

| --proxyurl                                 |     Proxy URL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Http global  |

> | --proxypac                                 |     Proxy pac file (can be an url or local file)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Http global  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --proxypac                                 |     Proxy .pac file (can be a URL or a local file)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Http global  |
```

| --memcached                                |     Memcached server to use (only one server).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Retention    |

> | --redis-server                             |     Redis server to use (only one server). SYntax: address\[:port\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Retention    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --redis-server                             |     Redis server to use (only one server). Syntax: address\[:port\]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Retention    |
```
